welcome welcome my friends to the first
ever nature's
armor fest yes from snails to crocodiles
everyone will be able to show off their
natural protection
carefully nurtured through millennia of
evolution
hey i wonder what's in that futuristic
looking box visible behind the curtain
but i guess we'll find out later and the
first to come out on stage is the
abalone
if there's an animal that's afraid of
next to nothing it's this one
a humble mollusk like this grows a shell
that can withstand
a lot of damage without causing any
inconvenience to the soft creature
inside
the sea snail carefully gathers its
armor from hair thin
bricks of calcium carbonate or simply
chalk normally chalk is brittle stuff
you can break it with your bare hands
without much effort
but abalones are crafty they create a
thick wall
the structure of which makes it both
lightweight and really tough
look how excited the scientists in the
first row are
they're looking forward to meeting the
abalone after the show
and learn all about its shell to create
a brand new type of armor for humans
or they're interested in lunch our next
participant
is a native of the amazon river the
arapaima
probably the toughest fish in the world
it can breathe air
and live out of the water for a whole
day that's how it's here in the first
place
and grows as long as two average people
are tall
but its most astonishing feature is its
natural
armor aeropymas scales protect it from
piranhas lurking in the same waters
those fish may be small but their bite
is powerful and teeth sharp
arapaima scales have a hard outer casing
and soft
skinny inner layer that allows the armor
to be bent
and deformed but never broken the third
toughest but only by number
is the ironclad beetle it has a very apt
name
its carapace is so hard it can withstand
the weight of a grown-up person
this particular specimen boasts of being
run over by a car once
and living to tell the tale the shell
can play a cruel joke on the beetle
itself though
when enough pressure is applied the
carapace can flatten the insect's
innards while staying intact itself
sounds like a crush to me entomologists
and insect collectors say they have to
use a hammer
to drive a needle into the shell and
sometimes
the needle bends now when you think of
snail armor
you usually imagine the shell but one
look at our next contestant
and you'll understand why it's only half
the thing
the scaly foot snail lives deep under
the ocean surface
near hot vents in the sea floor it does
wear a shell
but it's also protected from below by
hard scales made of iron sulfide
and in between the helmet and the iron
scales there sits
a slimy critter looking like a fully
armed knife
and a devoted one at that the snail
doesn't really eat
all its nutrition provided by bacteria
living on and
inside its body yum oh
rolling on the stage is the armored
paragon the pangolin
its scales look much like those of an
armadillo overlapping
each other and making a perfectly
fitting set
oh look something's rushing on the stage
it's a lion
alright who let the lion out the
pangolin reacts
lightning fast rolling into a ball and
lying still
the big cat lunges at it but its teeth
can't penetrate the armor
the stagehands are now leading the lion
back off the stage
our participant is safe but that was an
awesome demonstration of the pangolin
survival skills
although its scales are made of keratin
like human nails and hair
they provide the animal with an
excellent degree of protection
the following contestant is brought onto
the stage in a big
water tank it's a cuttlefish
not to be cuddled with it's a close
relative of squids and
octopuses now i hear muffled laughs
among the audience
and no wonder they came here to see the
best armor nature can provide
and these critters don't have any or do
they
in fact their armor is inside the body
and it's called cuddle bone it's not
even bone though but a porous
chalk shell that protects the
cuttlefish's insides
and allows it to regulate the depth of
swimming the pores
in the shell let in water and gas and
when the cuttlefish wants to sink
it allows more water into its cuttlebone
pumping it out with gas to go back up
a sinkhole opens up in the bottom of the
tank and the cuttlefish scrams to make
way for a
cunning predator the alligator gar
like the arapaima it can grow to an
impressive size
and this one is surely one of the
biggest of its kind
look at those teeth alligator guards are
ambush predators that lie
in weight and then quickly attack the
unwary fish
but this car is here to show off its
amazing scales
unlike in other fish they're thick and
covered in something like enamel
such scales provide a great level of
protection from predators
and alligator guards can take on a lot
of beating
before they're finally defeated with a
flourish
the gar slings down the sinkhole as well
and
something big shows up instead wow that
noise it's the bony plates on the side
of our next participant
scraping against the walls of the tunnel
meet the beluga sturgeon
the biggest of its family it may not be
covered in armor-like scales all over
but the five rows of the plates i
mentioned called scoots
give it ample defense against anything
that's dumb enough to
attack this giant of a fish not every
predator has a mouth
wide enough to get between these rows
you know and even the strongest of
underwater hunters can break their teeth
trying to take a bite out of this
sturgeon as the huge fish pushes itself
back into the tunnel
oh that's scraping again i wonder if you
noticed something else that was in the
tank with it
look closer it has a very distinctive
and recognizable shape
yes it's a cockshell similar to one you
probably have at your place
giving off the sounds of the ocean when
put to the ear
this one's inhabited though conchs are
sea snails
and their shells are not only very
pretty but also
really tough like other sea snails they
build their shells out of chalk
and hide inside them when endangered
this helps a lot
since not many predators have teeth
strong enough to bite through the thick
mobile armor set hey the scientists are
agitated again the kiton is entering the
stage through the sinkhole
this crafty mollusk has a very versatile
shell
unlike any other species the upper side
of it is made of loosely connected hard
plates
and below them circling the body of the
kyton is a girdle covered in tough
overlapping scales such a structure
allows the mollusk to move around
uneven surfaces like rocks while being
ready to stop and prepare for an attack
upon impact the shell and scales become
firm and don't let the kite and soft
body be harmed
the scientists are jotting down the
specifics they want to create armor like
this for humans too
finally the water tank is hauled away
from the stage
and our next and largest so far
contestant
slithers onto it the public is hushed
it's a nile crocodile an immense reptile
that's only slightly changed since its
appearance
millions of years ago the croc also has
a tough set of body armor
the reptilian scales are actually an
exoskeleton that serves for protection
the croc snaps at the spectators close
to it oh the beast is both
heavily armored and extremely aggressive
meanwhile
a prop brings an ancient suit of armor
made of crocodile skin to the stage
it was made in the 3rd century ce and
provided pretty good protection from
sharp things
oops better not make the croc here
nervous
but the scaly beast is agitated already
it hissed and snaps but slowly backs
away
and off the stage something heavy is
thrashing in the box we noticed at the
beginning
at last one of its walls gives in and
falls with a crash
and what we see stomping onto the stage
is an
ankylosaurus this dinosaur with
ankles is big and hulking with a large
thick skull
and robust armor plates covering all its
body
but probably the most notorious feature
is the tail club it used to fight off
predators
by differing accounts the armor of an
ankylosaurus is much thicker than
anything found in modern animals
and could take quite an impact before
giving in
what a magnificent monster and what
ankles it has